I actually have a question.
So there's, a famous Babylon and
there's three js.
Is there one you would
recommend focusing on?
I mean, I don't see a reason
why you'd use all three.
>> Exactly, that's true you can
use A frame and three JS together.
That will make sense.
But otherwise you wouldn't
use three of them because
these are engines that you
need to download just once.
You don't have to have all of them.
Well, it's up to you the reason I wanted
to show you both is because I just
want you to see the different syntax so
you can compare.
It's basically under the hoods,
they're all doing the same thing
creating a theme creating a camera and
objects and rendering the main
functionality works exactly the same way.
So, whichever syntax you find more
interesting, you should go with that one.
Or if you want.
>> The one that gives you more control.
>> No, they're pretty much the same
because it's JavaScript like you can
control a lot of them.
The only difference I would point
out is the tooling, that's one.
Babylon J's is supported by Microsoft and
three J's is supported
by Google at the moment.
But the person who wrote it,
which is his nickname is Mr. Doob.
He started working on it,
and worked on it,
long long years before he joined Google.
There are still open source projects and
whatever happens,
whatever decisions happens at Google or
Microsoft is not going to affect how these
libraries is going to be available to us.
And in the future,
there might be any other library that
comes up it's much more fascinating.
I would like to give you the idea
of it with the JavaScript library.
It is going to be the same thing with
different syntax that you're going to do.
One thing that you can also
do is look at their example,
and start playing with them there.
What you want to build with WebEx R or
TV on the web.
Just look at the examples.
They both have really good
example sites if you type in
3js.org these are all of the highlighted
projects that are done with 3 js.
But also they have a really cool
searchable examples on one side.
One thing I have to say about Babylon js
is the team is very good with fixing
the bugs if you happen to find one,
their goal is to fix it in 24 hours.
They're very dedicated and hopefully
they'll be able to do that forever.
I don't know how they
do it [LAUGH] honestly.
So that's one thing to consider.
One question is if you want to make
an interactive theme with 3D models,
which will be easier and less code, there
are actually model loaders out there too.
There's a web component
that you can call model
loader that you can
just load a model with.
If all you want to do is view a model,
model viewer is the name sorry.
This is something that you could do,
or there are also services.
Let's look at the glitch demo of it.
So we have the model we have the capacity
to, turn it around, look at it.
And let's say if you
are a product company,
then you want to just show everything
in 3D and don't want to deal with it.
This is one thing that you can do and
since this is a remix,
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
I'll paste it on the chat.
What you can do is say remix this and
then you can look at the code itself.
There are services that
does all of these as well.
So if your goal is to write no code,
you can actually do that, it is possible.
But if you want to have a little
bit more interactive experience,
then you want to write
your own JavaScript.
In that case, the still the least
code would be using A frame.
The question was, is there any
asset stores that you can just
download some applications I
mean some models and use it.
I have resources like GitHub repo for
you and all of the assets,
libraries, I put them
together that are free.
Some of them are paid, but
most of them are free and
the most exciting ones for me are museums.
I used to work at Autodesk
if you're not familiar or
vest is the company that makes
most of the 3D tools like Maya and
3Ds Max, as well as cat for architecture,
and there we worked on a tool for
Smithsonian, and
we have to scan their artifacts.
So they scanned almost everything and
they're all available to be downloaded.
So this was the tool
actually that we built.
Right now, I'm not sure if it's
still doing the same thing.
So you can download all of these
things and there are other cool
stuff like protein data that
you can download and visualize,
note NASA recently I have these
resources that you can download as well.
One warning I would give you
is when we were creating
these experiences because we scan them.
The the polygon count, polygons are those
triangles that I was telling you about,
was really high, and
when you scan things another thing that's
different is sometimes you have one
that's just pointing outwards so
you still have to go in and
clean it up yourself.
There are some free tools to do that,
blender is one.
You can download it and
you can take a look at it but
if you are not very familiar with 3D,
that will be a thing to learn and
easiest one and
the most performance
one is Poly.google.com
these are usually low poly models.
Unfortunately, Poly announced
that they will be closing and
we had something similar for
Microsoft that close down too.
But there's still lots of place that
says that you can find 3D assets,
but just make sure that
you check the polygons and
they are not humongous models.
So the question is,
can we use anything other than JavaScript
to create WebEx our experiences?
You can actually write your own C code and
then use web assembly to
translate it to the web.
That's one option.
And you can use other tools as well like,
for example,
unity does have a tool that translated for
you to WebxR.
How performances,
I'm not sure but it is possible.
One question is is Polyclosing for
low demand?
I don't think so it might be.
Google also close Daydream team,
which was their headsets,
very cheap headset that
might be the reason but
also saving all of these models 3D
models is a very expensive thing.
It's probably not cost effective.
One question is can we use same 3D
models for web as well as in unity?
Yes, you can, we have multiple
formats of 3D models which
we will cover in the section that
you're going to upload our own model.
GLTF is the most popular one and
the most efficient one and
that's the one that we recommend but
there are other
ones like OBJ that you can also
use both in other tools and
as well as WebExR and
what if you want to translate one
model format to another
blender is a great tool.
But there are other tools that
allows you to do that and
export it as a different formats.
And OBJ and
gltf is pretty much very universal.
All of the 3D tools do support it.
Building a 3D model is
graphic work am I right?
It is a great question it is
a different job for sure.
So and this is where I started
I used to create 3D models and
3D animations using some
of the design tools but
looks the people who are creating AR and
VR experiences,
designers and
developers are almost merged together.
Although I think creating the model
part is a totally different thing and
it requires a lot of work.
So I would definitely recommend
getting some cheaper models from
somewhere else instead of trying to
create it yourself because it will
be a very time consuming thing too.
One thing that I've noticed for
HoloLens developers they
are designers Have been architects
most of time because those
are the people who are used to
working with these 3D models and
are familiar with creating 3D experiences.
One question, do we have experienced
with Trimble SketchUp for
architectural presentation.
No, I don't have any experience.
I did work on a whole bunch
of tools at Autodesk,
which allowed you to do
something like that.
You could think of it as Word documents
for 3D, which was really exciting work.
>> Sorry,
I one last question before you move on,
is there maybe you mentioned it
the recommended poly size for
each model like don't go over 5000
triangles or over 10,000 triangles.
>> It really depends if you
have a very simple object,
like columns and spheres and
things like that.
You don't actually have to go big but
if you have something
a little bit more detailed,
for example a architecture,
then you have to go way up.
And one thing that is going to happen
in the future, it is happening for
native development is having services
cloud services like remote rendering.
Right now, for
they're not supporting WebEx R,
I'm sure they will be in the future.
What you can do with that is
if you have a much bigger and
in static model like a house you
can render it on the clouds and
that would not use as much computer power.
Anything that you want
to have interaction.
For example, if you want to
change the color of the walls or
click something to change the design
then you have to add that on top of it,
but still having static things
rendered will help you.
So the answer is unfortunately it depends.
If you just have a simple shape,
use the least amount of that looks good.
That's the basic idea.